[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Mike Adams: Welcome
to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams from
naturalnews.com.
>> Dr. Edward Group:
And I'm Ed Group
with globalhealingcenter.com.
>> Mike: Today's
episode is all about how
to detox your body naturally.
And Ed, you're an expert
on natural detoxification,
you've been in this
realm for 20 years plus.
You've helped formulate
products.
You helped millions
of people detox.
In your view, what are the
most important takeaway items
that people need to keep in
mind as they watch the show
and even after the show?
So, what's really the
core of detoxification
that people need to know?
>> Dr. Group: Well,
people need to know first
of all is what they're being
exposed to on a daily basis.
I mean it took me like 15 years
to really trace back
what the cause
of all these health
problems are.
And I know you've done
a lot of that too but--
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- you know, when
I started looking around even
in medical doctors,
chiropractors, you know,
all the schools that are
out there, they still teach,
you know, we're going to
treat the symptoms instead
of the root cause.
My main thing was just find
out what the root causes
because I know everybody has a
self-healing mechanism inside
their body just like you.
We would have people walk in
with 30, 40, 50 supplements
in a bag, into my clinic and I
would go through them and say,
you know, some of these are good
and some of them aren't good.
But what you're doing is even
if you're putting good nutrition
or good supplements in the body,
if you haven't taken
two steps back--
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: -- and
cleanse the body first,
then it's really not
going to work that good.
>> Mike: Yeah, it's
a really good point.
And even people who are into
nutrition and supplementation,
you can't see these toxins
that we're talking about.
They're invisible to
the naked eye, right?
So, you can't see a lead
in a calcium supplement.
And there are calcium
supplements, the cheap ones
that are contaminated with lead.
There are, you know, cheap
vitamins that contain chemicals.
There's cheap food.
There's even so-called
natural food that's loaded
with all kinds of chemicals,
pesticides, you know,
residues, maybe even PCBs.
So, these were all invisible
things and I think a lot
of people, they think
that if they can't see it,
it doesn't exist.
So, they don't realize
they're taking all those in.
And then their health symptoms
are big mystery to them.
So, I think really what
you and I are trying
to establish here today for the
audience is cause-effect change.
What inputs of toxins and heavy
metals is causing these symptoms
and then how do you get
rid of those causes.
The symptoms will vanish
when you eliminate the cause.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
And just like when I had
patients walk in to the office
and they had diabetes
or they had cancer
or they had heart disease.
One of the things I would
ask them is can you explain
to me why you have
heart disease?
Oh, you have cancer.
>> Mike: Oh, you ask
them if they cancer.
>> Dr. Group: I ask them that.
>> Mike: That's good.
>> Dr. Group: And the answer I
got back all the time was no.
I can't explain why I have it.
And I would say, well, you've
already been to five or six
or seven different doctors.
Did they explain to you
why you have your disease?
And they would say no.
>> Mike: Wow.
>> Dr. Group: And so, I
would say, look, I don't--
I'm not an electrician.
If I need to rewire my
house, I'm not going
to rewire my house unless I
first learn about electricity.
So, I would say--
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: -- if you want
to eliminate your cancer
or your heart disease,
don't you think you have
to understand why you
have heart disease?
Why you have cancer?
Well, because that the medical
establishment teaches us
that these things are
a matter of bad luck.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: It's
like getting struck
by an evil lightning
or something.
All of a sudden, you know,
they say you're healthy,
healthy, healthy.
Boom, one day you get
a cancer diagnosis.
We have a mammography in
it and it shows positive.
Oh, bad luck, they say.
It wasn't your fault.
There's nothing you could
have done or it's the fault
of your genes, another
medical myth.
In truth, for something to be
detectable as a cancer tumor,
it has to have been growing
for a decade or more just
to show up on mammography.
So, your body has-- You
have created a system
that promotes the growth
of cancer or the growth
of diabetes physiology or heart
disease physiology whatever the
case maybe.
You have in advertently-- I'm
not blaming the patient here
because in many cases, they're
victims of this invisible poison
that we're going to talk about.
But they have-- their bodies
have become environments
that promote these things
unknown to them, these diseases.
>> Mike: Exactly.
It's all-- It's all stems
from a toxic environment
and that's the research that
I did was like let's figure
out why these diseases
are happening.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: So let's
say somebody takes
in a million toxins everyday.
They take in 200,000 toxins
from the air they breathe.
200,000 toxins from
the water they drink--
>> Dr. Group: From water toxins.
>> Mike: 200, 000
from-- well, yeah.
I mean we're exposed
to that many--
the beverages, the parasites,
the prescription
medications that they're on.
When you combine all
these stuff in the system,
then the system starts
breaking down.
But what I wanted to
see was how are we going
to absorb these toxins
in the body?
Well, they're either going
to come in through the skin
or they're going to come
in through the mouth.
You know, the skin
is the largest organ.
So, you can breathe toxins in
too but most of them get caught
in the mucus membranes
and end up leaking back
down into the stomach.
So, in my research--
>> Dr. Group: It's
scary as a major vector.
>> Mike: It is a major vector.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
>> Mike: Yes.
So, my research was let's see
where these toxins are
entering the body and see
if we can figure out
a solution to that.
And that's what led
me to the research
of the intestinal lining because
all the food and the beverages
and everything else and
all those toxic compounds,
most of them enter
through the intestines.
>> Dr. Group: That's
a really good point.
It also brings up the issue
of the intestinal flora.
The microbiology
in the intestines actually
helps repair damaged
intestinal tissue.
That was in a new study
that just came out recently.
And yet, the medical industry
gives people antibiotics
that kill those populations
causing your gut not to be able
to repair itself, right?
And then people eat
a lot of gluten
and then they get
allergic inflammation
of the intestines plus
the damaged tissue
that can't be repaired.
That's when they start getting
undigested material leaking
directly into the blood, right?
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: This is how you
can get rheumatoid arthritis
with undigested uric acid
crystals in the blood.
You can actually get chemicals
that normally wouldn't
be absorbed
to the intestinal walls.
They can then go right
through and enter your blood.
You can have blood
infections that are fatal.
And this happens with
another kind of superbug
in the hospitals right
now that's killing people
or these intestinal blood
infections or the infections.
It starts in the intestines
and then it goes into the blood
and they're dead because there's
no antibiotics to fight it.
>> Mike: Exactly, it would.
>> Dr. Group: You see that's
the hidden guarded secret
of the medical community.
And when I walked around and
started talking to doctors,
calling gastroenterologist
on the phone
and asking them what
is the importance
of the intestinal lining?
And they said that they
were barely taught anything
in medical school
about the intestines.
I started realizing this
is really the secret
to health 'cause the
epithelial lining
of the intestines is
the same as the skin.
It's our covering.
Our skin is our intestines
inside out.
>> Mike: Yup.
>> Dr. Group: And with
the BT toxin blowing holes
in the intestinal lining and all
these compounds being floating
around on the bloodstream causes
a chronic immune response.
And the fact that people
are able to get these toxins
out of their intestines
as fast as they come in--
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: -- because people
are walking around constipated
and I have a couple facts here.
>> Mike: OK.
>> Dr. Group: Constipation leads
to around 2.5 million doctor
visits every single year
in hundreds and millions
of dollars.
>> Mike: Wow.
>> Dr. Group: Less
than 50 percent
of the population have
one bowel movement a day.
And, you know, the
National Institute
of Digestive Disorders
lists constipation as less
than three bowel
movements per week.
>> Mike: Oh, what?
>> Dr. Group: Yes, yes.
So, when you take these--
all this toxic buildup
and it stays inside
the intestinal lining,
it ultimately can leak
through burn holes
and then cause a toxic body.
And then those chemicals
have to be stored somewhere
because the liver is
congested, fatty--
We're seeing fatty liver in kids
these days, 12 and 13 years old.
The liver is overworked.
It can't process
the amount of toxins
that we're bringing
in on a daily basis.
So, the liver is, you know,
working at 30 or 40 percent
and these toxins have to be
stored somewhere in the body.
Let's just take diabetes
for example.
Well, you know, the pancreas is
burned out from all the foods,
all of the sudden, the
body starts storing toxins
around the cells in the pancreas
which the outer Langerhans cells
which produce insulin.
The cells can't get
the necessary nutrients
that they need to
produce insulin.
So then, all of a sudden,
the insulin levels go down
and then instead of
addressing the root cause
which means there's
too many toxins and gum
around the outside of the cell.
>> Mike: Right.
It just gave you insulin.
>> Dr. Group: We give insulin.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And the
problem is still there.
>> Mike: Well, exactly.
It's-- There are so many cases
like that in modern medicine.
But you just mentioned something
that reminding me
of dietary fiber.
Because this is one of the ways
that through food we can grab
on to the dietary toxins and
actually move them through.
And you're talking
about constipation.
The reason people
are constipated--
Well, there are couple
but one of the main run--
ones is that they don't
have enough dietary fiber.
And for example, they're
eating white processed flour,
almost no fiber.
They're eating a lot
of meat and cheese.
No fiber. They're drinking
pasteurized juices,
Coca-Cola, Pepsi, no fiber.
And there's-- there's actually--
I don't recall who it was
but it was someone
who works in the realm
of clinical detoxification.
And they said-- It was a
doctor who said, you know,
after studying all the societies
around the world, we
can make a choice.
We can either live in a society
that where we produce very
large fibrous stools that float
in the water and
very small hospitals
or we can have a society where
we have very small stools
that sink in water combined
with very large hospitals.
>> Dr. Group: That's pretty
much where we are right now.
>> Mike: That's a direct
inverse correlation.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
I mean if you eat live,
good food then you have
good bowel movements.
If you eat dead processed food,
then you have dead
bowel movements.
>> Mike: Right
>> Dr. Group: And
that's something
that people don't
pay attention to.
You know and I'll say that's
one of the most important things
because another real
shocking piece of information
that I found out
is the appendix.
I mean the appendix is actually
the brain super computer
of the body.
Not the brain in your
head but the appendix.
You know, it's still the medical
profession the only thing
that they do not know what it is
in the body strangely
enough is the appendix.
And I found Russian
and German research
that say the appendix actually
regulates the endocrine system,
the neurological system--
>> Mike: Interesting.
>> Dr. Group: -- everything.
>> Mike: I hadn't heard that.
>> Dr. Group: Why wouldn't the
brain or the super computer
of the body be in
the intestines?
>> Mike: What we know--
>> Dr. Group: That's the
first explosive point
>> Mike: -- there's a
second brain is your gut.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: You're stomach
has its own nerve cells.
It's called the second brain.
Yeah. Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: Right.
>> Mike: But that's
interesting about the appendix.
I'd heard that it
was a repository
for backup probiotics.
In case your major of
intestinal flora got wiped out,
your appendix could re-introduce
those probiotics back
into your digestive tract.
>> Dr. Group: Well, that and the
appendix helps regulate the pH
levels in the bowel but what
happens is the appendix gets
malfunctioned because
of the chemicals
in the heavy metals
and everything else.
And it's just like if you need
a clean environment with water
and two proteins and a calcium
and a magnesium or whatever
to regulate or to get a proper
signal and you throw chemicals
in that or you throw
GMOs in there
that change the genetic
structure or anything.
Then you can have alterations
and the appendix might not work
and might, you know, give the
wrong signals to the brain
or to the gutter
or anything else.
>> Mike: Right.
Right.
>> Dr. Group: Or get swollen
and what medical, you know,
what they're going to do is
they're going to yank it up.
They're going to cut it out.
>> Mike: Of course,
every astronaut has
to remove before
they go to space.
No wonder, they have so many
health problems afterwards.
But let's talk about avoidance.
Because we promised
people this topic.
Obviously, avoiding
exposure is a key element
in really detoxification
strategy.
But it's hard to
avoid everything even
if you go buy certified
organic food.
You're going to get some level
of lead, mercury, arsenic,
cadmium, aluminum, tin,
and maybe even copper.
A copper is a nutrient
at small levels
but it becomes toxic
in high levels.
You know, same thing with
some other elements as well.
Chromium, two different forms.
One form is a nutrient.
The other form hexavalent
is a toxin.
You know, arsenic has
organic and inorganic forms.
So, it's impossible to
avoid them completely
which means you got to
have something in your diet
that binds to those metals
and helps carry it
through your body.
And I know you have a lot
of knowledge in this area
so I post the question to you.
>> Dr. Group: Well, this took a
long period of time by the way.
It developed in a lot of testing
but what we found
was we always start
with the intestinal lining.
And there's a lot of products
out there that are herbal-based
that contains psyllium
or cascara sagrada
or marshmallow root or
senna and things like that.
But our whole philosophy
is that you need
to cleanse the bowel
on a regular basis.
I mean people take a
shower every single day,
wash the outside of their skin.
They don't wash the
inside of their skin.
And really when that stuff
sits inside the system
for a long period of time is
when you start having problems.
And it's not the colons.
See, we've come to a
society of marketing
and then you hear colon
cleansing, colon cleansing.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: You only
have 10 feet of colon.
By the time everything
gets in the colon anyway,
it's already formed then
everything's pretty much all
ready extracted from it.
The problem is in the
small intestines really.
And that's why, you know,
what works best for me
and what works best for people
I think is a real strong
oxygen-based intestinal
cleanser.
Because it's something you
could use on a regular basis
and the oxygen actually
bubbles through
and neutralizes the toxic
compound, turns it into an oil,
turns it into a gas or a liquid.
So, basically, it bubbles
through everything,
turns it into a gas or a liquid.
It's not diarrhea.
It's actually all
the toxins coming out
and addresses the
small intestine.
That's the first thing
that we do with everybody
and the first thing I recommend,
keeping the intestines clean
on a regular basis and doing
that at least two times a week.
>> Mike: I know you've
got a product.
Your store-- Your company has
a product called Oxy-Powder
that it comes as just that.
And I'm a fan of your product
but let me add something else,
a different product, Ascorbate.
It's a vitamin C
that's buffered.
And it's not from
GMO corn, right?
So, it's a non-GMO vitamin
C and it is buffered
with potassium or magnesium.
So, it's usually a potassium
ascorbate or magnesium ascorbate
or other basic minerals.
There's a great way to get an
intestinal flush with this.
You take a tablespoon of this
vitamin C every 15 minutes
with some water until
you get a flush.
Now, again, it's not diarrhea,
although some people
might mistake it for that.
What it is, it's like an
internal intestinal shower.
Your body actually injects
massive amounts of water
into your intestines as you're
taking in all these vitamin C
which by the way opens up all
of these detoxification pathways
at a cellular level, boost
your glutathione production
and efficiency.
Helps remove mercury
from cells at the same
that you're flushing your toxins
out through your small intestine
and large intestine and colon.
So, there's another--
There's another example.
>> Dr. Group: No, and
I agree with that.
And another great example
and this goes back past
biblical times is fasting.
I mean we've lost
the ability to fast.
Why do you think people fasted
for so, so many years ago?
They would fast one day
a week, two days a week
or maybe every couple of
months they would fast and back
in those days might, Mike, they
didn't even have chemicals.
They only had was
pure organic food
and they were still fasting.
>> Mike: Right.
That's true.
>> Dr. Group: They were
their body a chance
to heal itself, you know.
Every now and then, I'll go
on a complete raw juice fast
for like a week or a
water fast for a few days.
It's so good to help
detoxify the intestinal tract.
And once the intestines are
clean then you can start
detoxifying other
areas of the body
which the liver is
a major organ.
It's the second largest
organ and it needs
to be cleansed on
a regular basis.
Just think-- People
ask me, you know,
heart disease is a major killer
in America and they ask me
about blood pressure
all the time.
And I said, look, did
your doctor tell you
that blood pressure is
caused by a congested liver?
Just think if you
had an oil filter
on your car then you
never change, OK?
>> Mike: All right.
>> Dr. Group: How-- Well,
the oil pump would burn
out because it would even
be able to pump the oil
through the filter anymore.
>> Mike: That's right.
>> Dr. Group: And the liver is
your major detoxification organ.
I mean that's what takes and
detoxifies all the chemicals
and all the compounds
and pushes them back
in so you can eliminate
them properly.
Well, if your liver is
fatty which we're seeing
in the majority of
people over the age of 30,
if it's congested, the
blood from the heart--
The heart tries to pump
and it can't pump the blood
through the liver
so it's congested
and of course the heart is
going to have to be faster
and stronger and its going
to have to try to pressure
that through the liver
and then you're going
to have high blood pressure.
So, instead of the
doctor saying, Mrs. Jones,
you have high blood pressure
because you have a toxic liver.
It's always simplicity, Mike--
>> Mike: I know, I know.
>> Dr. Group: -- I mean
it's here in you right there
in the face that's
just basic anatomy.
>> Mike: No.
They say--
>> Dr. Group: They put
you on high blood pressure
which causes more
toxicity to the liver.
>> Mike: Oh, exactly,
the medications.
Yeah or they say
it's because of salt.
And let's also talk about the
kidneys because the kidney--
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: -- is our key
for eliminating toxins
in your blood.
And of course, kidneys right now
are being damaged in a big way
by two things that a lot of
people don't know about it.
One is vaccines.
You know that mercury in
vaccines causes kidney damage
and it's permanent
damage, unlike the liver
which can repair itself
quite effectively.
You know, it can grow back--
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: -- if you
take half of it out.
They can still grow back.
>> Dr. Group: Your liver
regenerates every 90 days.
>> Mike: Yeah.
But the kidneys don't, right?
You damage renal function
and it stays damaged.
So, dialysis centers
across the country
and around the world are
experiencing booming business
because of vaccinations
that contain mercury.
Now, if they can actually
just have vaccines
that didn't have
mercury in them,
I wouldn't be against
them so much.
I wouldn't, you know, I mean
I still wouldn't get them
but at least they wouldn't be
damaging people from the mercury
but there's also cadmium.
Cadmium.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: We found it in
our laboratory testing
at the Natural News
Forensic Food lab.
We found 3,000 parts
per billion of cadmium
in organic brown rice.
Certified organic, UST
organic brown rice.
This cadmium in addition
to being a hormone mimicker
just a xenoestrogen just
like BPA also causes
permanent kidney damage.
So, you can imagine and
if you combine vaccines
with cadmium that's in the
foods, you don't know it's
in there because it's invisible.
You're going to get
kidney damage.
liver damage.
You're also going
to get brain damage,
reduced cognitive function.
And this is I think one
of the biggest issues facing
our civilization today is
that we have a society based
on people who are voters,
who are public speakers, who
make decisions, our teachers,
school teachers, they
are damaged cognitively
by these heavy metals
and toxic chemicals
that are altering
their brain function.
>> Dr. Group: Absolutely,
100 percent when you
add MSG and aspartame--
>> Mike: Yup.
>> Dr. Group: -- the artificial
sweeteners, they're exotoxins,
and it just causes a
bad chemical reaction.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
speaking of the kidney,
I have people talked to me about
kidney stones all the time.
I mean how damaging is when
your kidney literally starts
calcifying and a good remedy
that I always tell people
to do is apple cider vinegar
and lemon water with distilled--
and take the distilled
water, put the juice of four
or five lemons in a gallon
and just drink that straight.
Although, there are some
other things out there
that you can take but it's
a good easy natural remedy
that they can use.
>> Mike: That's a great point
and you can do marshmallow root
or corn silk tea
or a lot of things.
But you're right,
altering the pH temporarily
to be more acidic
will actually tend
to dissolve the calcification
deposits in your kidneys
as your kidneys are
processing your blood
and removing there
from your body.
So, you've hit a
part of bigger area.
We don't have time to talk about
this here but everybody talks
about alkalizing, alkalizing.
Well, overall, it's a great
principle but sometimes
for short periods of
time, you want to acidify
for specific therapeutic
purpose.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: And that might
be something that those
of you watching, you may
want to do that with the help
of a naturopathic physician,
someone who can really give
you some guidance on that.
You don't want to acidify it
all the time and you don't want
to alkalize all the time.
>> Dr. Group: Right.
>> Mike: We need to know
when to use which one.
So, that's important
because I see a lot
of people buying those
alkalizer machines
and just drinking
alkaline water constantly.
That's not good to
do it all the time.
>> Dr. Group: No.
>> Mike: You got to
know when to do it.
>> Dr. Group: In nature and
rainwater, you're not going
to find that all the time.
>> Mike: No.
>> Dr. Group: I mean it's, you
know, and I'm a big believer
and you do things the natural
way and you try to be involved
as much as how it
occurs in nature itself.
And again, you know,
talking about kidney stones,
a lot of people don't even know
that you have liver stones.
You have just as many
stones in your liver
as you do your gallbladder.
There are lot of good
remedies out there for liver
and gallbladder cleansing.
You know, the one
that I have used
for a long time is giving
people a liver-cleansing,
four days preparation to
soften the stones and one
of the best ways to do that
is with a Chanca Piedra
and a few different
liver-cleansing herbs,
making sure they're all organic,
vegan, you know, gluten-free.
And then utilizing a few
days before drinking a lot
of water taking those
herbs and then on day five
and you'll see this throughout
the internet is using an olive
oil mixture.
They're drinking a
certain amount of olive oil
and that kind of
purges the liver
and purges the stone
[inaudible].
>> Mike: A lot of
olive oil to drink.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
That's the hardest part but
then they also use epsom salts
to loosen everything up as well.
And that's a pretty popular
liver cleanse out there, a liver
and gallbladder cleanse
and especially
if you do not have
a gallbladder,
it's more the reason why you
need to cleanse your liver
because your liver will
produce bile to take
over for your gallbladder.
>> Mike: Now, everything you
said is right on the mark.
I agree with it.
Let's talk about though the
need for a daily strategy.
You got to detoxify at
some level everyday.
Let me give you just
one example why.
Lead which is in a lot of
foods, it's in lipstick,
it's in cosmetics, it's
in children's toys,
it's in Halloween candy.
Lead tends to go into your
bones because it tends
to follow the metabolic
pathways of calcium.
So, a lot of people, they
may had lead exposure
over their lifetimes and maybe
they're 40, 50 years old today.
They have a lot of lead.
It builds up in their bones
which makes your bones soft
by the way, contributes to
osteoporosis and lot of women go
through a menopause
and they begin
to really dissolve some
bones and reform bones.
You know, bones area always
dissolving and reforming just
like every cell in
your body really.
Everything is being
recycled and reformed.
As that happens, especially
after menopause with a lot
of bone materials are released.
You can then get lead
released into your bloodstream.
You can actually
get lead poisoning
from your own skeleton
at whatever age.
You go through that cycle.
So, at that point, you better
have a detoxification system
going so that you can pull
the lead out to your blood
which your kidneys
and liver are going
to be responsible for that.
And get it out to your body.
>> Dr. Group: You
pretty much have
to detoxify yourself
on a steady basis.
I mean--
>> Mike: You really do.
>> Dr. Group: -- everything
that we're exposed
to on a daily basis.
Yes, of course, the first
priority is to make sure
that you eliminate
all the toxins,
clean up your environment, don't
put the chemicals in your body.
But still, that's not enough.
I mean we're exposed
to them everyday.
You have to do intestinal
cleansing.
You have to do at
least a few liver
and gallbladder cleansing
at-- cleanses every year.
It's preventative care.
It's keeping yourself healthy.
You're going to save so
much money in the long run.
And then also, you know, one of
our big cleansers is a chemical
and heavy metal cleanse
talking about lead,
talking about mercury, amalgams
in the teeth, all the aluminum
that we're exposed to,
through the chemtrails
and through the deodorants
and through aluminum
foil and aluminum cans.
Listen, in chemical and
heavy metal, I always wait
until we do the intestinal
cleanse then the liver
and gallbladder cleansings
'cause I don't want to pull
out too many chemicals and
heavy metals unless the liver
and the intestines
are already clean.
>> Mike: I want to make
an important note on this
to all those watching that if
you feel like you're suffering
from some kind of acute
poisoning in metals
or you have a heavy
load of metals
or other poisons in your body.
I really encourage you to seek
out a professional clinician
who specializes in
detoxification.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: Many of them
are members of ACAM.
Many of them use EDTA and
other chelation agents.
Some of them are
used intravenously.
Some of them are oral.
There are other methods to
get them in your body as well
but the point is that you
can actually damage yourself
with too rapid of
a chelation agent
or chelation-based
detoxification.
You can create such a
heavy load of metals coming
out of your tissues and out
of your organs and your blood.
That itself can be a problem so
you need to work with someone--
I believe if you think you
have a heavy load here,
work with someone
who understands how
to do this gradually
step by step
so that you can get
it out of your system.
You don't want detox
in one night.
That could kill you.
>> Dr. Group: No.
>> Mike: You want to detox
step by step in a safe manner
that restores your health
over time consistently.
>> Dr. Group: That's a great
point because listen I mean
if you're detoxing
for the first time.
I mean let's say
you're 50 years old
and you've been exposing
yourself
to all these toxins
for 50 years.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And then
all of the sudden,
you decide to go detox, you
know, you could be going
through what's called
a Herxheimer reaction
or a healing crisis.
And that's something that you
definitely want someone to work
with you on and you want to
take a little bit slower.
I mean it's not going to-- in
most cases kill you or anything
but it's a good idea to work
with a natural healthcare
practitioner
that can monitor your result.
>> Mike: Yeah.
And for example, a lot of
people watching right now grew
up in the time when there
was leaded gasoline.
Remember--
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: -- unleaded
gasoline only kicked
in about what the late
1970s or the early '80s.
Before that, it was all leaded.
So, you were breathing
in lead and it was going
into your bones all those
years before the switch over.
So, you've got lead in you from
that source of nothing else.
There's aluminum in the
air from the chemtrails.
>> Dr. Group: And
another thing too that's--
I didn't realize how important
this was but parasites.
See the definition of parasite?
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: People think
when they hear parasite,
it's just a worm.
But a parasite is
anything that lives off
of a host mechanism that's
not supposed to be there
or it's damaging to the host
mechanism which is bacteria,
virus, worms, mycoplasms,
who knows all
of these different things
that we're dealing with today.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: And so, another--
What happens is we found
cancer patients had
over a hundred trillion
microbes in their body.
Now, when you have in your body.
You now have candida which
is ramping right now,
when you have all these toxic
byproducts of these organisms,
these harmful organisms.
When they-- They
take your nutrition
and then they take
it away from you
and then what they
secrete isopropyl alcohol,
formaldehyde, phenols.
They secrete acid-forming
chemicals in your systems.
So, it's very important
to do it.
Parasite cleanse, you know,
you can use black walnut hull
for that, wormwood,
there's clove you can use.
There's many other
things you can do
but it's I think it's very
important to a parasite cleanse
at least two times a year.
And you pretty much
have to do it
for six weeks 'cause that's the
full life cycle of a parasite.
>> Mike: Right.
And I agree with you.
And I want to say that I
think one of the next phases
in modern medicine is
going to be the recognition
of the importance of
the gut, the importance
of the probiotics,
the healthy bacteria.
And I think the problem with the
Western medicine which has been
on a reductionist model
and compartmentalization
of the human body is that
they never allowed things
to be connected.
The mind wasn't connected
to the body they say.
They don't even believe
in the mind.
Most doctors don't
believe in the mind
or consciousness or anything.
They don't believe that the
gut is connected to the body
or the immune system and
that's a huge mistake.
We've got to start thinking
holistically, folks.
This is where the
answers come from.
It's all about the holistic.
It's the mind, it's the
body, it's the spirit,
it's the environment, it's
the microbes in your gut,
it's the food, the water, the
sunshine, all these things come
in the magnetics of the
planet all come in together.
This is real holistic health.
>> Dr. Group: And
the thing is, Mike,
our natural detoxification
methods are closed down.
I mean normally the
way we detoxify is
to having proper
bowel movements,
through urinating
properly, through respiration
and diaphoresis which
is sweating.
Most people are sedentary.
They're not getting
their exercise
and so our natural elimination
and detoxification pathways
with congested liver and just
overgrown and over accumulation
of toxins in the body
suppresses our own ability
to eliminate them.
And that's why you really
need to help these days
of other compounds, herbal
compounds and methods
like far infrared saunas,
chiropractic cares,
great, massage, acupuncture.
These are all things that you
can use on a regular basis
to help detoxify your body.
>> Mike: So, I hope you
learned a lot on this episode.
I know we covered
a lot of topics,
definitely do some
more research and check
with your naturopathic physician
if you have more questions.
This is Secrets to
Health with Mike and Ed.
Thanks for watching.
>> Dr. Group: Detox your life.
[ Music ]